So let's have a look
at all the ways we can launch our EC2 instances,
and the first one is using a spot request.
On the left hand side, I click on Spot Request
and we can have a look at first the pricing history
for our EC2 instances.
So if we look, for example, at a c3 or a c4.large,
for example, you're running Linux/Unix
and I'm going to look at three months range,
we can see how the price has evolved over time
based on April, May, June,
and we have the on-demand price as a black bar right here,
and then we have, based on the different AZ, the price.
And as we can see,
well the price has been quite low and quite stable.
And based on the different range you're looking at,
you're looking at savings of around 69 to 70%
for this type of instance.
So huge savings if you're using a spot instance
of type c4.large.
So how do we request a spot instance?
Well, we click on Request Spot Instances.
So I am in my spot fleet request screen,
and there's a lot of parameters that I can see,
but I want to go quickly over them
just so to get an idea of how spot fleet request works.
So you can either use your launch templates
or manually configure launch parameters,
and you can specify Amazon Linux 2,
the key pair you want to use,
as well as some additional launch parameters
you would specify if you were to create an EC2 instance.
So this defines how your EC2 instances are created
and this makes sense.
Next, we have request details,
so we have more settings in here.
We can say what's the max price you wanna have,
when is the request valid from and valid until,
do we want to terminate the instances
when the request expires or not,
and are we linking these EC2 instances
to one or more classic load balancer or a target group
to have it, for example, for an application balancer.
So we'll use the defaults for this.
Then for target capacity,
how many instances do we want to have
as part of our spot fleets.
So we can say, for example, 10 instances, okay.
We could also specify it in terms of vCPUs
if your unit of compute was more important,
or megabytes of memory if RAM was more of your target.
So we can say, for example, we want 10 vCPUs,
we want to maintain the target capacity
and then what happens?
Well, in case of interruption,
please terminate my instances,
but you can also stop them or hibernate them, okay?
And you can also rebalance the capacity if need be.
So this is just some tweaking around the target capacity.
Then for networking settings,
so where do you wanna launch them,
in specific AZs or not, in a specific VPC or not.
Then for the instance type,
do we want to have some restrictions,
so you can manually select the EC2 instances
that are matching some specific criteria
for your spot fleet request,
for example, c3.large, c4.large, and so on,
or you could specify just instance attributes
and this can say, hey, how many vCPUs you want, min and max,
how much memory you want, min and max,
and then other attributes if you wanted to.
And then based on what you specify right here
is going to give you the matching instance types.
And we see the more restrictive you have
you are around these parameters,
the less instant type matches you're going to have.
But the idea is that you want to just launch
whatever AWS has in store for you
so that you maximize the savings
while having some compliance with the restrictions
you said before.
Then the allocation strategy,
so do you want to optimize for capacity
so to make sure that you have the right capacity
all the time,
or do you want to have the lowest price
and you're going to get the strongest savings based to that.
And then if you had chosen
the manually selected instance types here,
for example, one, two, three, four,
then you could select this option right here
to maintain a diverse pool of instances
across all the instance types you selected right here.
So once you've done it,
you get some summary of your fleet request,
and whether it's a strong fleet,
how many instances match and so on in which AZ.
And then it gives you the estimated hourly price
for this fleet,
so 0.156 per hour at target capacity,
which is going to give me a 73% savings
compared to on-demand.
So no need to know exactly how these work, okay,
but just you can see all the parameters you can have
to do a spot fleet request.
If you want to launch a spot instance directly,
just go to Instances and then Launch an instance,
and in there, you can scroll down
and you will find under the Advanced details,
the option to request a spot instance.
So should you do so, then you are requesting spot instances
and by default, the request of the spot price
is capped at the on-demand price,
which is quite good, but you can customize this.
So you can, for example, enter your own maximum price
if you wanted to, per instance, per hour,
then you can choose the type of request you want.
So by default, it is a one-time request.
That means that whenever you request a spot instance
in case it gets reclaimed,
it will automatically be terminated,
this is the only correct interruption behavior,
or you can choose a persistent type of request.
In that case, then the spot instance
will keep on coming back
when the price requirements are set.
In that case, you have to set a validity of your request.
You say, okay, this request is persistent
until a date or just no expiry,
as well as what happens in case the price goes over
the maximum price you have.
In that case, you have an interruption behavior
of either hibernate or stop.
And finally you see here, block duration.
This is going away on December 22nd,
on December 31st of 2022,
so I'm not describing it to you right now.
This is a outdated feature
that you may not even see on your account right now.
Next, let's have a look
at all the other options available to us.
So we have reserved instances
and reserved instances allows us to purchase
a specific reserve instance of a specific type.
For example, we can look for a c5.large
and we can do a search of all the offerings.
And as we can see,
we have different offerings available to us.
For example, we have a 12-months or a 13-months term
and it could be a standard
or a convertible type of instance,
and this is all upfront,
but we scroll down,
we can get so all upfront,
we can get no upfront,
we can get partial upfront.
We say how many you want,
for example, we want two of these,
so I'll just have the number two in here.
And then on the right hand side,
you can just click on Add to carts
to add this reserved instance to your carts.
If you click on View carts,
you can have a look
at what type of reserved instance do you want
and then we can order all.
But if you click on that, you will pay a lot of money,
so I would suggest not to do this.
As we can see, reserved instances,
I think, will soon go away
because now the AWS Savings Plans,
maybe something that's easier to use,
and so this is why it's recommended to use the savings plan.
So the Savings Plan is available here on the left hand side,
which is allow you to dedicate
a specific amount of dollar per hour you spend
on a one, two, three-year term
and gives you flexibility
of how you want to launch your instance.
It gives you flexibility in terms of instance type,
AZs, and so on.
So we'll go now, go over it, but it gives you the option.
Next, we have dedicated hosts.
So dedicated host is for you to launch a host
that you get access to a lower level kind of hardware,
which gives you better licensing pricing,
which is why if you click on this,
it will direct you to a license manager,
which is a way to think in terms of licenses
and not think in terms of host,
and in which case, it's going to simplify the management
of your dedicated host.
But if you wanted to launch a dedicated host directly
from this UI,
you click on Allocate Dedicated Host,
then you would name it,
you would specify the instance family, for example, c5,
you would specify an AZ.
So on this dedicated host of the c5,
we can launch multiple instance types
and then a bunch of settings as you go,
and then you click on Allocates
and you will have a dedicated host.
But again, I will not do this
because this will cost you a lot of money.
Finally, for capacity reservations,
this is when you want to ensure that capacity is available
within your EC2 instance launch.
So for example, we're saying,
"Hey, I want to make sure that I have enough m5.2xlarge
available to me,"
so I want them to be in eu-central-1,
and I want them to have four EC2 instance type
m5.2xlarge available to me no matter what, okay?
And then you can say, when the reservation ends,
is it manually on a specific time,
and then this will guarantee
that the instances will be available to you,
but you will have to pay for this reservation regardless
whether or not you are launching your instances in it.
Okay?
So that's it for this lecture.
We've seen all the ways to launch your EC2 instance types.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.